When he, he always put the game plan on paper, and we
spent the entire week going over it. And when the
game plan came, I mean, I knew from the thing that he
said, it's almost exactly what he wanted me to do. I
mean, we, Coach Spiler was almost the opposite. I
mean, he tried to, I mean, He wanted to give you all
the freedom in the world. I wasn't used to that. I
liked it when Coach Martin would tell you what to
do. In certain situations, this is what you do. I
had no problem playing. I was in better health.
Things were going better.
I just thought Coach Martin
was about as good as he came.
Football in those days was so primitive compared
to what he is now that there was no companion. It was
beginning to get a little bit more complex toward
my junior senior year.
I guess I just didn't adapt as well. Go through a
typical week's workouts. Well.
During the season. Monday, Tuesday was the,
Monday we generally would review what had
happened the day, the week before. And then, it was
not a too much, too heavy a workout, and we began to
practice in sort of a non-contact way what we were
gonna do the next week. And then on Tuesday, we
generally, that was our hardest practice, and we
would try to practice as near under game
conditions as we could, the things that we were
going to do, and then we kind of eased up. And
Tuesday's practice would be about how long in
duration? Tuesday's practice sometimes would be
until it got so dark that you couldn't see. And
Wednesdays and Thursdays were lighter, and
Friday was just kind of a walkthrough.
That
first year with Coach Norton, as soon as my
afternoon classes were over, and I only had a
couple, I'd break my neck to get down there, and
we'd sit down and he'd talk to us. Sometimes it
would just be me, and sometimes it would be a couple
of us, and sometimes it would be all of us. And we
would sit in his office and talk with him until the
time to go to practice. Describe his ethics.
I just have to say that I never saw or heard of
anything he did that
was questionable at all. In fact, he told me one
time we were sitting up there by DeWare
Fieldhouse. And he said, this is toward the end of
my, my leg was broken. And that's why, I guess why I
happened to be sitting there by him. But he said, I
made two mistakes at A&M. He said, the first one was
after the 1940 season. He said, I had a chance to go
to USC. I said, I didn't take it. He said, if I had to
do over again, I would go to the USC. So the second
mistake I made was when the war was over, everybody
that was on scholarship at A&M, when they came
back, I didn't have a scholarship. And that
included guys like Luke Simmons that couldn't
walk. He said, if I had to do over again, I'd do it
again. You know, that's the kind of guy he was. Did
you get any impression of his feelings about the
other Southwest Conference coaches at that time?
How did he feel about them? No, I don't know. I
certainly didn't get any feeling of animosity.
I have the impression that they were friends.
Yeah, I think they were. That they knew each other.
They had been in it for a long, you know, there was
Dutch Meyer, TCU, and was it Rice? Just Neely. Just
Neely and Rice. Matty Bell. Matty Bell at SMU. And
Bible. And Bible at Austin. And Kimbrough was at
Baylor. And Barnhill was at. And those guys,
they'd all been there for years. And Coach
Norton's private life was not questionable, was
it? Not that I know
of. All right, let's see. Back to people that made
an impression on you. Were there any, you said Mr.
Penberthy. Describe him as the leader of the
Department of Physical Education. Well, of
course, Mr.
Penney was the one guy I know that I believe he, I
honestly believe he knew every student in the
school. And he knew a lot about a lot of people. The
main
part of the P.E. department was the required P.E.
along with that intramural program. Of course,
the intramural program was pretty much under the
physical education program at that time. This was
one place where everybody had a good time. The P.E.
was recreation. It wasn't so much, it wasn't
drudgery at all. Most of us were young enough, we
still liked to play, and that's what D.E. was all
about.
Of course, a lot of it was competitive. I mean,
during the war, they started the mile and
seven-tenths run, you know, and the swimming.
Most of us really enjoyed D.E. professional PE
department, for those of us that were PE majors, it
was like, well, there was no school of education at
A&M, you know, and the PE department, there were
about three or four professors, and in the
Department of Education, there were only three.
And who were those key people? Well, let's see, Mr.
Dowd,
Well,
while you're thinking about it, this young guy who
would later become a Southwest Conference
football referee, Carl Landis. That's who it was.
Oh, OK. Did you have any courses with Carl? Yes.
Describe him as a teacher. Dr. Landis was the most
professional P.E. teacher we had. And he worked
more at trying to get us as physical education
majors to be academicians and professional. He's
the first, he's the only one in the P.E. department
who would have a paper to write would require you to
footnote it and he was Highly professional. And I
always appreciated him for that. He probably had
more influence on us as
future professional people than anybody. Was he
already officiating? Yes, he was officiating.
And he was pretty influential in getting a lot of us
to start in officiating. Oh, really? Now did you do
some officiating too? I did until I started
coaching and then, you know, officiating and
coaching. That's what I thought. Can't hardly do
that. And did he have any impression on your
brother to be? Well, I don't know exactly how it
really got started. I know Barney Welch was
probably,
I know he was officiating by that time. And
they had a, and they may still have a, a pretty
active chapter of the Southwest Football Fishers
Association here. Dr. Landis was president of it.
So, Taylor Wilkins was another one. He was
president of the, that was active in the Fishers
Association.
He's on the school board here.
Not Bob Nelson, but Bob Nelson's son. What's his
name? Anyway, he was an old bailer boy, and he was
active.
Let's see. After the war, did you do much
socializing as a student? Well, yeah. Of course,
there was still, it was all men. And most of the
socializing was men kind of thing. They'd drink
beer. Where? Triangle. Okay. And there was a
drive-in over here next to what's now the Ford
place. And
if you weren't going to eat on campus, where would
you go to eat a... Eat a hamburger? Or a hamburger or
a barbecue or whatever? Well, let's see... There
were a couple of places at the north gate. There was
one place up above the Lipscomb Pharmacy. And it
went through several stages. It was a pool hall and
a beer joint. a hamburger place, but our fare was
generally hamburgers and chicken fried steak.
There were two, there were two or three
restaurants in Bryan, the City Cafe and the Bryan
Cafe, that we frequented, particularly, they
sailed late. And I remember Leon Hale, wrote a
column in the, I think it was, I guess it was in the
Chronicle, since he's been in the Chronicle,
might have been maybe with the Post, but about
trying to find enchiladas like they made at the
Pacific Cafe in Ryan. Was there any place of shady
reputation that anybody went to after the war?
Well, yeah, there were a couple of, beer joints out
here
on the highway. The Navels, there were two beers,
right where 21 and 6 cross. North End of town. North
End of town. Where it's now Texas Avenue and
Highway 21, where they cross. Right where the
Wieners is, there was a big beer joint and right
across Texas 21 and that was another one and one of
them was navels and i don't know what i can't
remember and then there was a there's a place out
just across the river on 21 called the avalon and if
you were going to drink hard liquor that's where
you went because the liquor store was across the
river all right now i met a man when i was in high
school in orange because i'm a couple years
younger than you and he had once been over in one of
those places when the Air Force Base was there, and
his expertise was in gambling and so forth. He was a
dealer and all that. Was there any of that out there
near the air base? I'm sure there was, but... Was
there ever? There were several. The Avalon was a
nightclub. Okay. And there were several other
places out there. I'm sure there... that you could
place a bed if you wanted to. That wasn't much of my
thing, so I'm not too familiar with it. I can
remember some of the guys talking about playing
poker. And Whiskey Bridge, straight out Highway
6,
was that liquor store yet there? Going the way to
Snook? Yeah, yeah.
It's just been leveled within the last two years.
Just the old building? Yeah. But it used to be on
the, I mean, that was the new building. There was
one on the other side of the highway. Oh, okay. They
were just a little frame. Yeah. But I guess they
probably did pretty well financially. Yeah,
let's see. MSC wasn't finished. when you
graduated, was it? No. Religious Census Week, was
it? It was. Was it? I think, I think my dad had a hand
in starting it. Okay. And it was going on while you
were a student? Oh yeah, yeah. And I can remember a
couple of guys I remember one of the men, I believe
his name was Bill
Peterson from Oklahoma City. I think that was his
name. But this is, I believe, let's see, this must
have been about 1948 or not. It was during the time
when
President Gilchrist was having so much trouble
with and the Federals. And my dad was looking for a
speaker. Were you familiar with the way religions
speak? You know, they would have a main speaker and
then they would bring in representatives from all
faiths and they'd meet in small groups. But the
main speaker was the one that my dad was always
worried about, at least vocally. At home, he would
talk about, you know, who could he get? I'm almost
sure this guy named Bill Peterson. He was the
minister of the Christian church in the city. And
he had been a prize fighter,
nightclub agency, and had all sorts of
experiences. And anyway, My dad contacted him,
and he explained to him the problems that were
happening on the campus. And he says, I don't know
if anybody will attend these services or not. And
he says, I'll tell you what. You get 100 people in
the auditorium the first day I preach, and I
guarantee you it'll be full. Anyway, to make a long
story short, he came down here and they had the,
the first Sunday, I mean the first, on Monday they
turned out 10 o'clock classes into 11 o'clock, you
know. And this was at Guyon? This was at Guyon Hall.
And they had a pretty good crowd the first day. The
downstairs
was mostly full. a few people upstairs, and he
preached. And the next day, the next four services
was standing room only. I mean, he delivered. And
the first thing he said, the first, I remember the
first, they had all the, they had all the ministers
from the, on the stage, and they introduced him.
And he was a great big guy, you know, like 6'4",
maybe weighed 2, 25, 35. And the first thing he
said, he asked Joe Boyd, the former All-American,
the Reverend Joe Boyd, to stand up. He says, I want
to arm wrestle you right here. They didn't do it,
but that was the first thing he said. And then the
things that he said to him just appealed to the
entire student body, I guess. He was highly
successful. And they had two or three others that
were, I mean, one man was the,
was a Presbyterian. And he was, what is he, at the
Congress? Oh, the chaplain for the- The chaplain
for the Synagogue. congressional chaplain at one
time, and he was from California. I thought I'd
never forget his name either, but obviously my
mind ain't going. But anyway, he came in, he was a
whole lot more serious, but he was, the religious
emphasis weeks were really pretty successful.
Did you go? Oh, absolutely. I enjoyed it. In fact,
you know, there were so few places for people to The
MSE wasn't there, and the LaSalle Hotel was kind of
going down the drain. And my dad kept the minister,
the primary speaker, at home. Let's see, now there
was a little Aggie, what was it called across from
Sabisa? Was it called the Aggie Land Inn? Aggie
Land Inn, yeah. And it had about how many rooms?
Was there any other people? motel of any sort in
College Station? Well, I think that's the blue top
tourist court. And it was strictly a tourist
court. It was at the East Gate. So there weren't any
night football games, so that the football, the
visiting team, didn't spend the night here. No.
They generally came on the train that morning.
Where did a basketball team go? I don't know. I've
never thought about that. So the other place to
stay was at the La Salle Hotel, wasn't it? Yeah. I
really don't know where they stayed. I really
don't. I
just never thought about that. When you were a
freshman before you go away to the war, Where do
you, where did you get a date? Well, I was fortunate
enough to have a girlfriend that, that whose folks
lived here. Oh, okay. Okay. Then when you come
back? When I came back, she was at Sophia Newcomb in
New Orleans. Okay. And so I was in the same category
with everybody else. We just kind of, there
weren't many girls, you know, but there, The kid,
when we were in high school, if a girl started
dating an Aggie, then the high school kids
wouldn't have an Aggie. Yeah, she's too
highfalutin for us, you know, and so when you, when
we got out of high school, we got an A&M, well then
the role was reversed if, you know, and we tried to,
we tried to date the high school girls, and to a
point, when we got out of When we came back after the
service, the girls from here that we knew were in
college, Austin or
Denton, for the most part. And so we were just in the
same boat with everybody else. If you had a date on
the weekend, you either had to go to Austin or
Denton, or sometimes they'd come home. We had a
pretty good leg up on a lot of guys when these were
on. Now, were the Tesses coming down here on the
train on those special weekends before the war?
I'm sure they were, yeah. I know they, even after
the war, What I'm thinking about, when A&M would
play SMU or TCU, they would come down here on the
train the morning of the ball
game. And the reason I know that is that Dope
Walker's dad was at Austin College when my dad was
up there. Oh, yes. ULD Walker. And he and my dad
remained friends. When I was a senior and I, no,
when I was a freshman at A&M, when we had the
football banter, my dad invited Dope to come down
and go to the football banter with us. Dope was the
year behind us. He was a senior at Holland Park. And
so he came down and spent the weekend at our house
and went to the football banquet and two days after
the football banquet is when I had to report to the
Army. But Bill went back to SMU and he went in the
service and he went down to, he was at Brooks Army
Base in San Antonio And it was so far for him to go
home on the weekends that several times he came
over and spent the weekend with my folks while he
was in the service. And I was in the service. I was
gone. And I never did. I didn't know it, except my
mother would write and tell me to go and spend the
weekend with them. Well, after the war, we played
SMU three times. One time, I was on crutches and
didn't get to play. And we played up here once and in
Dallas once. But when the train came down from
Dallas with the SMU team on it, I went over and I
wanted to speak to him. Every time I saw that guy
after the war, the first thing he wanted to know was
how my mom was doing. That's just how he had to be.
And
I met him twice at the station here when the SMU team
was coming in just to shake hands with him. That's
the impression everybody that I've ever talked
to. That's right. That's the only impression I've
ever heard of him. The Missouri team, Missouri
broke the 15-game undefeated streak up there. And
after the game is over, the Missouri quarterback,
a superb guy named Buss Insminger, who is of the
same quality of human being as Doak, he leads the
whole Missouri team over to talk to Doak to tell him
what a superb game he's played. And they start
talking, and pretty soon the SMU team goes to Matty
Bell and tells him that the Missouri guys have
asked them if they could stay and go to the danced
that night in Columbia. And they said, coach,
could the train just wait? And so they did. And I've
shared that with a number of people to say, can you
imagine today, after all of the cheap talk, two
teams talking like that? Then Doak's father got an
honorary degree at Austin College while I was
there. I got to be one of the student marshals. And
here comes Doak Walker. And no, no, no, they
wouldn't accept special seats. No, no, no, we're
just like anybody else. Just let us be seated. And I
thought, what a splendid, splendid family.
Let
me stop there, and we'll renew this.